---
title: Updating Capacitor to 3.0 in your app
description: Guide for updating Capacitor from v2 to v3 in your app
---

# Updating Capacitor to 3.0 in your app

Capacitor 3 brings crucial updates to the ecosystem and exciting new features.

Read the Capacitor 3.0 beta announcement &#8250; (TODO)

> After upgrading your app to Capacitor 3, would you mind sharing any feedback you have in [this discussion](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor/discussions/3994)? We'd love to hear from you! 💖

If you're a plugin author looking to upgrade your plugins to newer Capacitor versions, see the [Upgrade Guide for Capacitor Plugins](/docs/updating/plugins/3-0).

> 🚧 This guide is a work-in-progress. Thanks for your patience!

## NodeJS 12+

Node 8 has reached end-of-life. Node 10 will reach end-of-life on April 30th, 2021. Capacitor 3 requires NodeJS 12 or greater. (Latest LTS version is recommended.)

## Update Capacitor CLI and Core

```bash
npm install @capacitor/cli@next @capacitor/core@next
```

## ES2017+

Capacitor 3 now builds for ES2017 environments, instead of ES5. The [plugin template has also been updated](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor/pull/3427/files#diff-b22b3d0cbb7d8f6fdfe1f6f1d9e84b7d) to target ES2017, and third-party plugins are encouraged to update their targets.

This change should not affect your app unless you are supporting IE11, which Capacitor does not officially support.

## TypeScript 3.8+

Capacitor 3 uses a newer TypeScript syntax which can only be used in TS 3.8 or later.

## Official Plugins

All plugins have been removed from Capacitor core and placed into their own npm packages. There are several reasons for this (see [#3227](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor/issues/3227)) and the core team is confident this is the right way to go.

### Background Task, Permissions, and Photos plugins removed

- **Background Task**: This plugin appeared to be rarely used and didn't quite work as most devs expected. The core team will readdress background functionality in the future. Subscribe to [#3032](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor/issues/3032) for updates.
- **Permissions**: The core team has implemented an alternative to this centralized approach which community plugins may also adopt. See the new Permissions API. (TODO: link)
- **Photos**: This undocumented iOS-only plugin has been removed. Use [`@capacitor-community/media`](https://github.com/capacitor-community/media).

### Accessibility, App, and Modals plugins split up

- **Accessibility**
  - VoiceOver and TalkBack functionality moved into [**Screen Reader**](/docs/apis/screen-reader)
- **App**
  - App-related info and functionality remains in [**App**](/docs/apis/app)
  - App URL handling (`openUrl()` and `canOpenUrl()`) moved into [**App Launcher**](/docs/apis/app-launcher)
- **Modals**
  - Action Sheet functionality (`showActions()`) moved into [**Action Sheet**](/docs/apis/action-sheet)
  - Dialog window functionality (`alert()`, `prompt()`, and `confirm()`) moved into [**Dialog**](/docs/apis/dialog)

### Migrating your app to use the new official plugin packages

This change will require you to install each plugin that you were using individually.

1. Search your project for core plugins extracted from the `Plugins` object from `@capacitor/core`
1. Find the corresponding [plugin documentation](/docs/apis), keeping in mind that [some plugins have been split up](#accessibility-app-and-modals-plugins-split-up)
1. Follow the installation instructions for each plugin in the documentation
1. Change the plugin import to import from the plugin's package instead (see [Plugin Imports](#plugin-imports))
1. Follow any instructions in [Backward Incompatible Plugin Changes](#backward-incompatible-plugin-changes)

**Using Ionic Framework?**

The Ionic Framework makes use of APIs in the following plugins:

- [**App**](/docs/apis/app)
- [**Haptics**](/docs/apis/haptics)
- [**Keyboard**](/docs/apis/keyboard)

For best performance with Ionic Framework, you should make sure these plugins are installed even if you don't import them in your app:

```bash
npm install @capacitor/app @capacitor/haptics @capacitor/keyboard
```

## Plugin Imports

The `Plugins` object is deprecated, but will continue to work in Capacitor 3. Capacitor plugins should be updated to use the new plugin registration APIs (TODO: link), which will allow them to be imported directly from the plugin's package.

Going forward, the `Plugins` object from `@capacitor/core` should not be used.

```typescript
// OLD
import { Plugins } from '@capacitor/core';
const { AnyPlugin } = Plugins;
```

Importing the plugin directly from the plugin's package is preferred, but the plugin must be updated to work with Capacitor 3 for this to be possible.

```typescript
// NEW
import { AnyPlugin } from 'any-plugin';
```

## Backward Incompatible Plugin Changes

While many of the plugin APIs remain the same to ease the migration process to Capacitor 3, some will require code updates and manual migrations.

- **Accessibility** / **Screen Reader**
  - `isScreenReaderEnabled()` method has been renamed to `isEnabled()`
  - `'accessibilityScreenReaderStateChange'` event has been renamed to `'screenReaderStateChange'`
  - On Android and iOS, `speak()` will only work if a screen reader is currently active. For text-to-speech capabilities while screen readers are active or not, use [`@capacitor-community/text-to-speech`](https://github.com/capacitor-community/text-to-speech).
- **Browser**
  - `prefetch()` has been removed. (TODO: explain)
- **Device**
  - App information has been removed from `getInfo()` (`appVersion`, `appBuild`, `appId` and `appName`). Use the App plugin's [`getInfo()`](/docs/apis/app#getinfo) for this information.
- **Haptics**
  - `HapticsNotificationType` enum keys have been switched from upper case to camel case to match other enums.
- **Local Notifications**
  - This plugin is now using the new Permissions API. `requestPermission()` was removed, use `requestPermissions()`.
- **Push Notifications**
  - This plugin is now using the new Permissions API. `requestPermission()` was removed, use `requestPermissions()`.
- **Share**
  - `share()` method now returns `ShareResult` instead of `any`
  - The return value of `share()` will no longer include `completed`. If it was not completed, it will reject instead.
- **Storage**
  - **Data migration required!** The internal storage mechanism has changed and requires data migration. A convenience method has been added: `migrate()`. To update your app without affecting end users, call `migrate()` before any other methods.

## iOS

Capacitor 3 supports iOS 12+. Xcode 12+ is required.

### Set iOS deployment target to 12.0

Do the following for your Xcode project and app target: open the **Build Settings** tab. Under the **Deployment** section, change **iOS Deployment Target** to **iOS 12.0**.

### Set Swift version to 5

If your app is not already using Swift 5, open the **Build Settings** tab in your Xcode target, then change **Swift Language Version** to **Swift 5** under the **Swift Compiler - Language** section.

### Update the Capacitor iOS platform

```bash
npm install @capacitor/ios@next
npx cap sync ios
```

### Switch from `CAPBridge` to `ApplicationDelegateProxy` in application events

In `ios/App/App/AppDelegate.swift`, update the following:

```diff-swift
     func application(_ app: UIApplication, open url: URL, options: [UIApplication.OpenURLOptionsKey: Any] = [:]) -> Bool {
         // Called when the app was launched with a url. Feel free to add additional processing here,
         // but if you want the App API to support tracking app url opens, make sure to keep this call
-        return CAPBridge.handleOpenUrl(url, options)
+        return ApplicationDelegateProxy.shared.application(app, open: url, options: options)
     }

     func application(_ application: UIApplication, continue userActivity: NSUserActivity, restorationHandler: @escaping ([UIUserActivityRestoring]?) -> Void) -> Bool {
         // Called when the app was launched with an activity, including Universal Links.
         // Feel free to add additional processing here, but if you want the App API to support
         // tracking app url opens, make sure to keep this call
-        return CAPBridge.handleContinueActivity(userActivity, restorationHandler)
+        return ApplicationDelegateProxy.shared.application(application, continue: userActivity, restorationHandler: restorationHandler)
     }
```

### Switch from hard-coded `CAPNotifications` to `NSNotification` extensions

In `ios/App/App/AppDelegate.swift`, update the following:

```diff-swift
     override func touchesBegan(_ touches: Set<UITouch>, with event: UIEvent?) {
         super.touchesBegan(touches, with: event)

         let statusBarRect = UIApplication.shared.statusBarFrame
         guard let touchPoint = event?.allTouches?.first?.location(in: self.window) else { return }

         if statusBarRect.contains(touchPoint) {
-            NotificationCenter.default.post(CAPBridge.statusBarTappedNotification)
+            NotificationCenter.default.post(name: .capacitorStatusBarTapped, object: nil)
         }
     }

     func application(_ application: UIApplication, didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken deviceToken: Data) {
-        NotificationCenter.default.post(name: Notification.Name(CAPNotifications.DidRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken.name()), object: deviceToken)
+        NotificationCenter.default.post(name: .capacitorDidRegisterForRemoteNotifications, object: deviceToken)
     }

     func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithError error: Error) {
-        NotificationCenter.default.post(name: Notification.Name(CAPNotifications.DidFailToRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithError.name()), object: error)
+        NotificationCenter.default.post(name: .capacitorDidFailToRegisterForRemoteNotifications, object: error)
     }
```

### Ignore `DerivedData`

Add `DerivedData` to the `ios/.gitignore` file. This is where the Capacitor CLI places native iOS builds.

```diff
 App/Pods
 App/public
 App/Podfile.lock
+DerivedData
 xcuserdata

 # Cordova plugins for Capacitor
```

## Android

Capacitor 3 supports Android 5+ (and now supports Android 11). Android Studio 4+ is required.

### Update the Capacitor Android platform

```bash
npm install @capacitor/android@next
npx cap sync android
```

### Switch to automatic Android plugin loading

In Capacitor 3, it is preferred to automatically load the Android plugins (TODO: link). In `MainActivity.java`, the `onCreate` method can be removed. You no longer have to edit this file when adding or removing plugins.

```diff-java
 public class MainActivity extends BridgeActivity {
-    @Override
-    public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
-        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
-
-        // Initializes the Bridge
-        this.init(savedInstanceState, new ArrayList<Class<? extends Plugin>>() {{
-            // Additional plugins you've installed go here
-            add(Plugin1.class);
-            add(Plugin2.class);
-        }});
-    }
 }
```

If your app includes custom plugins, you do still have to register the plugins in `onCreate`:

```diff-java
 public class MainActivity extends BridgeActivity {
     @Override
     public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
         super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);

+        registerPlugin(PluginInMyApp.class);
     }
 }
```

### Update Gradle to 6.5

We now recommend using Gradle 6.5 with Capacitor projects. In Android Studio, open the **File** menu, then click **Project Structure**. In the **Project** section, change **Gradle Version** to **6.5** and **Android Gradle Plugin Version** to **4.1.1**. Then, click **OK**.

You may want to evaluate suggested updates to Android packages in the **Suggestions** section of the **Project Structure** dialog.

### Update SDK target version to 30

Capacitor 3 supports Android 11 (API 30), so you can update your SDK target to 30. In `android/variables.gradle`, change `compileSdkVersion` and `targetSdkVersion` to `30`.

```diff-groovy
 ext {
     minSdkVersion = 21
-    compileSdkVersion = 29
-    targetSdkVersion = 29
+    compileSdkVersion = 30
+    targetSdkVersion = 30
     androidxAppCompatVersion = '1.2.0'
     androidxCoreVersion =  '1.2.0'
     androidxMaterialVersion =  '1.1.0-rc02'
```
